---
title: Data Types
layout: guide.html
product: AI Data Capture SDK
productversion: ""
---

## Overview

This guide outlines the data types used in the AI Data Capture SDK.

---

## BBox

The Bounding Box `BBox` class, a subclass of the `Rect` class, is a core component for handling bounding boxes, rectangular frames that enclose detected objects within an image, defining their position and dimensions. Each bounding box includes:

- **Probability (Confidence) -** The confidence score of the detection.
- **Class -** The label of the detected object.
- **Coordinates -** The coordinates: xmin, ymin, xmax, and ymax.

The `BBox` class contains attributes such as class label (`cls`) and probability (`prob`), which are essential for identifying and assessing detected objects.

The following sections cover the attributes for `BBox`.

---

### cls

        public int cls

**Description:** An integer that represents the class label of the detected object, corresponding to a specific category or class in the object detection model.

---

### prob

        public float prob

**Description:** A float value that indicates the probability or confidence score associated with the detection of the object, typically ranging from 0.0 to 1.0.

---

### xmin

        public float xmin

**Description:** The x-coordinate of the lower-left corner.

---

### ymin

        public float ymin

**Description:** The y-coordinate of the lower-left corner.

---

### xmax

        public float xmax

**Description:** The x-coordinate of the upper-right corner.

---

### ymax

        public float ymax

**Description:** The y-coordinate of the upper-right corner.

---

## Complex BBox

The `ComplexBBox`, or Complex Bounding Box, class is a core component for handling bounding polygon that encloses detected text within an image, defining its position and dimensions. Each complex bounding box includes:

- **Probability (Confidence) -** The confidence score of the detection.
- **Coordinates -** The coordinates of the bounding polygon.

The following sections cover the variables for `ComplexBBox`.

---

### x[ ]

        public float[] x

**Description:** An array of floats representing the x-coordinates of the vertices of the complex bounding box, allowing for polygons beyond simple rectangles.

---

### y[ ]

        public float[] y

**Description:** An array of floats representing the y-coordinates corresponding to the x array, defining the vertices of the complex bounding box.

---

### prob

        public float prob

**Description:** A float representing the probability or confidence score associated with the bounding box, indicating the confidence level of the detected text.

---

## DecodedText

The `DecodedText` class represents recognized text along with an associated confidence score, allowing applications to choose the best interpretation based on context or additional processing.

The following sections cover the attributes for `DecodedText`.

---

### content

        public String content

**Description:** A String that contains the recognized or decoded text.

---

### confidence

        public float confidence

**Description:** A float representing the confidence level in the accuracy of the recognized text, typically ranging from 0.0 (no confidence) to 1.0 (full confidence)..

---

## Descriptor

The `Descriptor` class represents the feature descriptors generated by the `FeatureExtractor` as a vector of float values, along with the model version used to generate these descriptors.

The following sections cover the methods for `Descriptor`.

---

### getModelVersionInfo()

        public String getModelVersionInfo()

**Description:** Returns the model version used to generate feature descriptors.

---

### getDescriptorInfo()

        public float[][] getDescriptorInfo()

**Description:** Returns feature descriptors that are generated by the `FeatureExtractor`.

---

## OCRResult

The `OCRResult` class represents the result of an Optical Character Recognition (OCR) operation. It provides information about the recognized text and its location within an image. This is essential for applications that require precise localization and extraction of text from images, such as in automated document processing and image-based data entry.

The following sections cover the attributes for `OCRResult`.

---

### bbox

**Description:** An instance of the [ComplexBBox](#complex-bbox) class, which defines the rectangular area in the image where the text was detected.

---

### text

        public String text

**Description:** Contains the recognized text within the bounding box. This attribute provides direct access to the textual content obtained from the OCR process, allowing applications to utilize this data for further analysis or processing.

---

<!--
## Recognition

The `Recognition` class includes attributes that store similarity scores, normalized similarity scores, and SKU identifiers for each recognized product. These attributes help in determining the confidence and correctness of the recognition process.

The following sections cover the attributes for `Recognition`.

---

### similarity

        public float similarity[]

**Description:** Stores the raw similarity scores, indicating the degree of similarity between the input data and each recognized product.

---

### normalizedSimilarity

        public float normalizedSimilarity[]

**Description:** This array contains the normalized similarity scores for each recognized product, allowing for a more uniform comparison across different recognition tasks.

---

### sku

        public String sku[]

**Description:** Contains the SKU identifiers for each recognized product, facilitating product identification and inventory management.

---
-->

## TextLine

An array of `TextLine` objects representing the lines of text in a paragraph.

The following sections cover the attributes and methods for `TextLine`.

---

### bbox

        public ComplexBBox bbox

**Description:** Represents the `ComplexBBox` class.

---

### decodes

        public Word[] decodes

**Description:** Represents an array of `Word` objects.

---

### toString()

        public String toString()

**Description:** Returns a string representation of the `TextLine`, concatenating the content of all words with spaces. Returns an empty string if there are no words.

---

## TextParagraph

The `TextParagraph` class represents a paragraph of text detected within an image, providing a structured method to access the individual lines of text and their bounding information.

The following sections cover the attributes and methods for `TextLine`.

---

### bbox

        public ComplexBBox bbox

**Description:** Represents the [ComplexBBox](#complex-bbox) class.

---

### lines

        public TextLine[] lines

**Description:** An array of `TextLine` objects representing the lines of text in the paragraph. This structure allows for detailed analysis and processing of each line, enabling applications to reconstruct the paragraph’s text content, understand its structure, and perform further operations like editing or translation.

---

### toString()

        public String toString()

**Description:** Returns a string representation of the `TextParagraph`, concatenating the content of all words in each line with newline characters. Returns an empty string if there are no lines.

---

## Word

The `Word` class represents a word extracted from a document, including spatial information about the word's location through a bounding box and multiple potential decoded text interpretations.

The following sections cover the variables for `Word`.

---

### bbox

        public ComplexBBox bbox

**Description:** Represents the [ComplexBBox](#complex-bbox) class.

---

### decodes

        public DecodedText[] decodes

**Description:** Represents an array of [DecodedText](#decodedtext) objects.

---

Related Guides:

- [About](../about/)
- [Setup](../setup/)
- [Localizer](../localizer/)
- [Product Recognition](../productrecognition/)
  - [Feature Extractor](../productrecognition/#featureextractor)
  - [Feature Storage](../productrecognition/#featurestorage)
  - [Recognizer](../productrecognition/#recognizer)
- [Barcode Decoder](../barcodedecoder/)
- [TextOCR](../textocr/)
